hello and welcome to the package
managers weekly sync we haven't done one
of these in a while because we've been
reorganizing things and so this seemed
like a good time to discuss what we
should do with this meeting and the kind
of areas we should focus on or the
format of it that we should have on an
ongoing basis I still think is a good
idea to have a public call that is
recorded and kind of gives a nice output
of what we're working on
we ipfs and package managers but maybe
this would be a good week to discuss the
different options what we think is would
be useful to output for the community
and what we should do going forwards and
and just look at dogs being cuddled on
the sofa oh don't worry my dog's gone
yeah place right now for this group
where people are gonna do kind of like
weekly this is this is what I've worked
on this week this is what I'm working on
next week and like write it down just
had that meeting before but it wasn't
recorded or public it was just like
let's review Zen hub and kind of see if
anyone is blocked on anything the output
of that isn't like
isn't obvious entirely I guess is it's
mostly just like aligned with the issues
that are in the in progress column and
if you're not going to be progressing on
those I guess they go into the backlog
Michelle's nodding so that's that's this
is the first one of those we've had so I
imagine they will get more structured or
turn into whatever we think is most
useful as we go along and grow steam
that kind of thing but yep so we have
sprint planning quote-unquote right
before this call so to explain I guess a
little bit of what has happened we had
I know here and I'm gonna try and
explain in between massive packet loss
let's see how it goes I think is you
don't know until it starts so I'll just
repeat everything I'll just repeat
everything multiple times and then
eventually it will come back
the we had ipfs team week and ipfs camp
last month early at least it was in June
and kind of did a slight reorganization
of the teams and the working groups
within the ipfs project to focus on a
number of key areas that we want to make
real progress in and one of those is the
package managers support of package
managers with ipfs and so rather than
just be a special interest group doing
research we actually now have a real
team that are focused on improving
different parts of ipfs that are
directly related to package management
and for this next quarter we've put
together the okay ours and they are
linked and in the new updated readme of
the package managers repository on
github we are going to focus on the file
system based package managers primarily
Linux system distro package managers but
that can also work for maven Sipan
basically any package manager that you
can make a mirror or backup with our
sink and be able to drop it in a
directory essentially like so that that
kind of why why do we choose to focus on
that because it is kind of the of
in the package managers repo there's a
nice file about the kind of different
levels of implementation as you go down
and the file system based package
managers are the simplest in terms of
getting the whole thing onto ipfs
because everything is file based the
indexes as well as the individual
tarballs are all nicely contained in
simple files which i think is i haven't
actually spoken to many process based
package many maintainer z' but it comes
across as it's set up for operational
simplicity for the ability to easily
allow copying and mirroring using
traditional Linux tooling without
needing to to build extra databases or
to run applications you're literally
able to use HTTP servers and rsync and
ftp servers to enable many people to run
their own mirrors of package managers
and then everything is signed as well
like that's a really nice thing not to
have to worry about is that all of that
signing is contained as files with
inside that package manager so we can
get full support for a file system based
package manager simply by being able to
put that directory into ipfs and then be
able to have people download via the
path using UNIX FS and then every time
that there's an update to that package
manager
the root hash of that directory will
change and will need to broadcast that
out either via IP NS or fire updating a
DNS link but that kind of gives us a
nice small target focus on and we can
then be able to make a big
impact their that also all the
improvements we make for fast system
based package managers contribute
towards other kinds of package managers
as well but each other kind so that's
the database fact or they get based
package managers have more complexity
because trying to put a database inside
of ipfs or to try and make something
that acts like a database inside of ipfs
becomes tricky when it comes to
permissions and authority over it naming
oh do you have question sorry though
whereas in the file system based package
managers you have a central source of
truth which is you usually eat whoever
has the admin rights to say the deb
repository they can write to any part of
the debian repository and they're kind
of trusted to do that whereas many
database based package managers you're
looking at like well i can change these
rows of this database and i can change
these tarballs or I can add more tables
their reference from rows in the
database that ends up being really
complicated when you try and put all of
that on it on to ipfs but for those
database package merges actually store
in the tarballs
ends up being a subset of the the
filesystem base package pages so that's
kind of where we shook out and said like
this seems like a good one to start with
and then once we've done that
successfully then we can move on to
looking at how to how to support the
other kinds of package managers once
we've got filesystem base ones working
well that cover off why we came out with
that pretty well and then like inside of
that we kind of have a few things that
we already know from the past few months
of a package manager special interest
group of the kinds of
of challenges that are involved in just
getting file system based package
managers on to ipfs the performance of
importing the performance of updating
and then the challenges of updating as
well with different api's and the user
experience of doing that from a
maintainer side and then on the flip
side is the the consumer has performance
and UX
challenges as well we've kind of formed
our okrs around that a little bit but I
think to begin with we're focusing
mostly on the maintainer side so setting
up mirrors and then being able to
regularly update those mirrors they're
fairly large looking things so the stats
for likethey at apps repository is
almost a million files across some
50,000 directories inside of a single
root directory they get updated maybe
every I think they're the average is
somewhere between like the suggested
sync is every four to six hours if you
end up being a primary so that a lot of
the mirror setups appear to be like
primary and secondary secondary ones
they're like oh try and try and update
every every day every 24 hours some of
them are like oh you can you can sync
every 10 minutes if you're using this
particular kind of our sync script but
to be a primary you usually the mirror
the the upstream source will push to
your server and say over SSH and say
like oh there's a new thing you should
run in a sink that ends up being like
fairly small differences and they're not
as frequent as say like NPM which is
seeing a new release of a package every
few seconds
Erb we're seeing like maybe every four
hours
which is
because currently it takes about four
hours to to commit the differences and
to go through a rehash every file and
check if it's changed or not via using
straight-up ipfs add to add the whole
thing again Dominic is been working on
some interesting efforts around being
able to mount ipfs as a file system
which would enable us to uh link
directly into IP FS which would be
really cool because then we would only
need to to rehash this stuff that has
changed and that would work directly
with existing tooling that package
manager maintain is used rather than
having to create and maintain particular
tools for package management if we can
work with existing UNIX tooling then
that's wonderful it means we can kind of
lean on all of that existing well-known
tech rather than having to become
maintainer x' yes Molly I was taking a
look at the cue tree okay ours for this
group and I noticed that the the number
zero okay R which is the system based
package manager should be able to take a
large truck tree of files and import it
into ipfs from scratch in an amount of
time that's reasonable and then update
it doesn't have any either initiatives
or or metrics around it presumably it's
because the next one after that has like
defined the metrics that are relevant or
something but for example the thing you
just described sounds like an initiative
which is like not tracked anywhere in
Europe a ours
sorry I've missed the first part of that
but Michelle definitely heard it if you
want to take it can you hear me first of
all yeah that's zero bit isn't really an
okay Ari I didn't know where to put it
it was more that once we started
breaking stuff down that was like the
North Star kind of thing and then the
stuff underneath it was like okay this
is how we're going to solve that drug
that makes sense okay then my alternate
feedback loop is effectively of you have
three okay ours one around hey we should
we should measure some stuff measuring
is important and I'm very supportive of
that that's great one that is like
research and stuff we should understand
some things and one that is we should be
we should be happy and we should be
functioning as a team all of those are
great things none of those is actually
make the package manager experience
great using ipfs like many of those is
actually the end work number two is
research and improved the user
experience so it's not just research we
test absolutely it doesn't it doesn't
say like research and like and like
improve research and improve user
experience but I'm looking at the key
results underneath it are the
initiatives so we have in order to make
research and improve a thing the
initiatives are the things we do to do
that we can definitely wait I mean let's
change the wording we're imagining that
the second lump there is both work out
how we what kind of the the pain points
are where user experience includes the
speed and then actually like be able to
improve the speed but we're currently
not exactly sure which way we should
improve it other than the end
should be faster and people should have
a good time I can also say for me it was
a bit of like well we're in an
interesting space where I know we talked
a teen week it's like okay word might be
doing a lot of tests and Shipyard for
example and be able to say we've done
all this and we've done like ten pocs
and we think that this is the way to do
it but we're not confident that we
actually can get anything into like the
core implementations because that's not
us it kind of is us anyways so for me
test is a bit like POC and we're going
to be doing this stuff and we're gonna
figure out how to do things probably but
yeah that's me personally I don't know
if I answer it feels the same way gotcha
so my understanding from the
conversation is from team week and from
past conversations in this group is that
like core protocol improvements are
needed in order to achieve these things
that andrew is just describing and that
we do have kind of a a more targeted
understanding of like the next thing we
think needs to happen whether that's a
capability that we think needs to be
added or whether that's like a
performance improvement to a specific
area and yet from reading these
initiatives like they they don't seem
that which is you know if these are like
super high level and these point to like
four issues which is like do this thing
in this thing in this thing that's cool
but then I think it needs really precise
metrics for how we're gonna measure this
of like hey we're gonna take like these
this Threepio sees all of what already
exists and like make them fester or make
them reduce this really annoying point
or something like that because right now
I just feel like it's gonna be really
hard for you to measure any of these
things yes well we hope to get there the
whole point is that we don't actually
know what improvement means yet and
that's part of what our job is this
quarter we don't know if it means that
it XYZ needs to be faster or ABC news
faster we don't know if faster is even
the thing that we should be focusing on
or if it's something else over there
like that the ad API is doing something
weird
blah blah blah and it's a you
experience probably mostly so as soon as
we have that stuff we will certainly add
it in so I think the the work that I'd
kind of lined up to focus on this week
was to generate a document that lines up
like as the be kind of this section
sorry
terrible internet so basically going
like here's the like the summary of
everything file system based for from
the past three months including all of
the like known blockers and the existing
metrics that were collected group them
out into areas which would be research
of like what's the like here are the
things that have been experienced and
then like do they how would they go
about being fixed do they even should
they even be considered or should they
just be thrown out as like that is not
the right way to use ipfs for this thing
then the metrics that we already have so
like 36 hours to do ipfs ad from scratch
for the apps repository results as one
of those like his this is the only the
only way you can do this like without
ddossing the DHT
basically that document will be the
precursor to those four things one of
them like it the output at the
conclusion of that document basically is
going to be like one way would be to
mount ipfs as a file system and sync
directly into that another way would be
to look at kind of the the current
multiple options for adding files via
the CLI and how each one doesn't work
for like some particularly annoying
thing and then the performance broadly I
said ipfs ad but really there's like
ipfs files right or the other things
will be like that's the the lump of the
work for once we've gone like well we're
definitely not going to be able to use
this API or like we don't think it's
worth investing in that but I think that
the conclusion will line up with their
the things that we've got there and then
being able to actually talk to a package
manager maintainer x' will inform this
imagining we will be doing a lot of
course correction once we have people
with the knowledge of ipfs internals
more kind of on-boarded into the things
that we've got we've kind of generated
these okrs from the point of research
rather than the point of like knowledge
of internals or what we think we could
actually ship and trying to be quite
iterative in the way that we go about
solving it rather than trying to
speculate too far ahead because that's I
find
direction on a regular basis to be an
effective way to like thinking about the
end user the whole time will be
something that will be front of mind and
which is why we kind of put the key
result as maintain there should kind of
be like successful and it there should
be like if we do it right people will
start to mirror stuff and we'll be able
to like track that but maybe putting a
key metric that says there are X number
of mirrors is kind of putting the wagon
in front of the horse I hear you and I
think I'm the this sort of the sort of
thing that I would hope would be
demonstrated by the work that we do this
quarter by having these POCs that
already point out some like real pain
points where we're like oh maybe people
don't want to be running these PLC's all
the time because they have some some
pretty annoying characteristics to them
getting to a point where even the
existing POCs we have are you know
running in a reasonable amount of time
with a reasonable overhead like we feel
good pointing people to these things as
like the exemplars that they should
emulate things like that just the data
point is like getting to a place where
you can actually measure this key result
for this area is like it
I completely agree like that's what we
should be aiming for I don't think we
should be pivoting somewhere else I just
think that's hard to measure and so
looking at other data points you can use
and what you already have that you're
using to drive the work and feeding that
nadir okay ours could be really useful
otherwise you have to
create some sort of pulling mechanism
for all package manager repository
maintain Ares and ask them these
questions and get them to respond and to
get them to have a delta before and
after and like we're not gonna do that
because that's overhead and we have
engineering work to do which is a little
bit folks yeah yeah no way I see where I
see where you're coming around there
I will ponder on that a bit
how we can do that right I kind of
imagined me being a proxy of the
maintainer zazz well I'm not sure if
that's necessarily a good idea but
definitely kind of being like oh I can
try it's our mirror again and again and
kind of repeatedly say I didn't have a
good time it was slightly better than
last time but it's still not good like I
can set up a mirror within a reasonable
window of time as someone who has set up
mirrors before maybe you have an idea of
like how long that should really take
and then consuming from that mirror is
like something that you know is just as
nice as consuming from other very
mirrors that I have run I know we have
one okay so that's really good feedback
Molly I think we should definitely take
that into account and think about how to
get the measurement under control a
little bit more rather than having
something a little bit looser and it
seem what I'll do for the next week's
weekly call for package managers will be
to come up maybe with a a theme I
probably open an issue or put it in the
the issue that we have for this weekly
sync if anyone else wants to propose a
topic for a week then maybe throw in
that issue as well and we can we can
kind of iterate on how we do these
meetings on a weekly basis and get kind
of more of a community summary or like
interesting areas of kind of information
in these meetings and we can
maybe like hopefully get our okay our
kind of things into the the weekly
review area that we have I think there's
also an OPR meeting towards the end a
week the weekend we can follow up
hopefully I'll have some improvements
after we Weaver the presentation of our
ro pairs across different groups on
Thursday which we're going to record and
make make sure it's successful cool well
thanks everyone for notice I'll stick
them in less you and her we'll see you
next week